did you know that in late 2021 google
ads quietly released a major change to
the way that keywords are targeted in
google ads and the scary thing is is
that most people aren't even aware of
this change including so-called google
ads experts if you are not aware of what
this change is and more importantly if
you haven't actively taken steps in your
google ads account and also your
optimization strategies you're going to
be wasting a lot of money in google ads
not only will be wasting a lot of money
in google ads you're very likely to see
the number of conversions and sales drop
dramatically in this video i'm going to
take you through what the change is but
more importantly what you need to do in
order to combat this change to make sure
that your campaign is still seeing daily
success with google ads my name is aaron
young and i'm your 15 000 google ads
master there were actually two main
changes now the first change was that
now with the google ads that you
actually target that the broader match
types capture all queries of narrower
match types so what this actually means
is if you're targeting a phrase match
keyword google will now automatically
also match any exact match keywords and
then if you were to add in a broad match
keyword in your google ads account it
would automatically target phrase match
and exact match keywords the reason for
why i highlighted this change is that
three to five years ago it was quite
common practice for that when you would
set up a google ads campaign is that
you'd set up a separate ad group for
your broad match keywords you would then
also set up another ad group for your
phrase match keywords and then you'd
exact match keywords but with this
change in the targeting that is now no
longer required also it is now not also
required to put broad match phrase match
an exact match keyword to the same
keyword in the same ad group so what you
want to do now if you only want to
target that exact match keyword you
would just place it in as an exact match
and no other keyword types and if you
wanted to have a bit more of a looser or
a broader match you would just put that
keyword down as a broad match keyword
and then you wouldn't have to go back
and add in either phrase match or exact
match keywords in that ad group and the
second change and the more important
change is that exact match keywords are
actually no longer exact match and that
is because google ads has expanded the
targeting of exact match keywords so
that your ads can actually show on
searches that have the same meaning for
your keyword and they've given the
example here that the exact match
keyword of lawn mowing service could
also appear for keywords such as grass
cutting service so previously if you had
the exact match keyword in your campaign
baby earmuffs your ads would only
trigger when someone had typed in the
term baby earmuffs in that exact order
so if they have typed in earmuffs baby
your ads would not have appeared the
exact match keyword meant exactly that
is that not only did the keywords have
to match but the order also had to be
the same that is now all changed because
google is now relying on its own meaning
the problem here and this is the change
that you need to make in your
optimizations is that sometimes the
meaning would not actually be correct
let me show you an example before i get
into this example if you've got any
specific questions on how this change in
the google ads match types relates to
your campaign i'd be happy to answer
them for you to get your question
answered just simply subscribe to my
channel and then leave your question in
the comments section below and i'll come
back and answer your question for you
okay let's get into the example this is
the example that i wanted to show so the
product is kids earmuffs and it's
actually all black's kids earmuffs so in
their google ads campaign we actually
had the exact match keyword of all
black's headphones but you can see here
with the match type change to be meaning
google has actually picked up all of
these other keywords to mean the same
things all black's headphones including
all blacks merchandise all blacks
onesies all blacks rugby or black's
rugby jacket and you can clearly see
that this is something that we are not
offering on this website and further
than that it's got nothing to do with
this individual product or the target
market that we're looking to attract so
now in google ads if you've got a highly
specific product and a highly specific
target market where you want to only be
targeting search terms such as all
blacks headphones what you need to do is
you actually need to go through and do a
search term audit every seven days now
to complete your search term audit you
want to go into the search terms section
i'll just remove this filter and you can
see from here we're now seeing all of
the individual search terms that
triggered our ads and then from here
it's just a matter of going through this
list line by line and picking up any
other keywords that we don't want our
ads to trigger for so from here i can
actually see here airpod gen one we
don't want to appear for that and also
all jabra products so to stop our ads
appearing for these search terms once
we've selected those we then just simply
add them as a negative keyword and press
save this simple action of completing a
regular search term audit in your google
ads campaign can make sure that you
overcome the change in google ads match
types to make sure that you're not
wasting any of your precious marketing
budget completing these simple
optimization checks to make sure that
you're optimizing your google ads
account as much as you can is the reason
why i put together my very own google
ads optimization checklist in this
checklist it goes through and lists what
you need to optimize in your google ads
account every week every month and every
90 days and you can get your free google
ads optimization checklist right now all
you need to do is follow the link in the
description below to get yours today
thank you for watching this video about
google ads match types and if you want
to see my full three-step process and
how i complete my google ads keyword
research for my own google ads campaigns
why don't you check out this video right
here thank you again and see you next
time